AIRUNTIME-171 - add documentation for cooperative_groups::inclusive_scan and exclusive_scan (#7254)
ROCm/rocm-systems: projects/hip/docs/how-to/hip_runtime_api/cooperative_groups.rst

      multi_grid_group multi_grid = this_multi_grid();
      multi_grid.sync();

.. _cg_operations:

Operations
==========

All cooperative groups operations receive the same arguments:

* ``group`` is either a ``coalesced_group`` or a ``thread_block_tile``

> * ``val`` needs to be a type ``T`` that is trivially copyable, default constructible and up to 32 bytes in size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``val`` needs to be a type ``T`` that is trivially copyable, default constructible, and up to 32 bytes in size.
```

* On AMD platform: ``unsigned int``, and if the user defines the macro ``HIP_ENABLE_EXTRA_WARP_SYNC_TYPES``, then ``int``, ``unsigned long long`` or ``long long`` are also hardware-accelerated.

inclusive_scan
-----------------

.. code-block:: cpp

  auto inclusive_scan(const TyGroup& group, TyVal&& val, Operation&& op)
  auto inclusive_scan(const TyGroup& group, TyVal&& val)

Defined in cooperative_groups/hip_scan.h. Performs an inclusive scan using the operation ``op`` on the specified group, contributing the value ``val``. Participation of all the threads belonging to the group is expected, with each thread contributing the same per-thread value. Behaviour is undefined if one of the threads of the group does not participate.

The parameters are described here: :ref:`cg_operations`

**Performance**
On AMD, when ``group`` is of the same size as the warp size and ``T`` primitive type, DPP instructions will be used, which means the operation would be significantly faster than with other group sizes. The primitive types are:

For arithmetic scans (``plus``, ``less`` and ``greater``):

* On Nvidia platform: there is hardware acceleration for ``int`` or ``unsigned int``

> * On AMD platform: there is hardware acceleration for ``int``, ``unsigned int``, ``unsigned long long``, ``long long``, ``half``/``float``/``double`` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Nvidia: hardware acceleration for ``int``, ``unsigned int``

* AMD: hardware acceleration for ``int``, ``unsigned int``, ``unsigned long long``, ``long long``, ``half``/``float``/``double`` 
```

Author: Ok, fixed now

For bitwise-scans: (``bit_and``, ``bit_or``, ``bit_xor``)

* On Nvidia platform: ``unsigned int``

> * On AMD platform: ``unsigned int``, ``int``, ``unsigned long long`` or ``long long``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Nvidia: ``unsigned int``

* AMD: ``unsigned int``, ``int``, ``unsigned long long``, ``long long``
```

Author: Ok, fixed now

exclusive_scan
-----------------
.. code-block:: cpp

  auto exclusive_scan(const TyGroup& group, TyVal&& val, Operation&& op)
  auto exclusive_scan(const TyGroup& group, TyVal&& val)

Defined in cooperative_groups/hip_scan.h. Performs an exclusive scan using the operation ``op`` on the specified group, contributing the value ``val``. Participation of all the threads belonging to the group is expected, with each thread contributing the same per-thread value. Behaviour is undefined if one of the threads of the group does not participate.

The parameters are described here: :ref:`cg_operations`

> The value returned for the first active lane is platform-dependent, and the programmer should not depend on one value or another being returned as it might change in the future; but as a reference, given a ``val`` of type ``T``, the returned value is:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 The value returned for the first active lane is platform-dependent and may change in future releases. As a reference: 
```

* On AMD:

>   Currently the "identity" value is returned, according to the operation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* AMD — returns the identity value for the operation:
```

Author: Ok, fixed

  * ``plus``: always 0
  * ``less``:
    * for integer types: the maximum value for the type, i.e. ``std::numeric_limits<T>::max()``
    * for floating point types: ``inf``
  * ``greater``:
    * for integer types: the minimum value for the type, i.e. ``std::numeric_limits<T>::lowest()``
    * for floating point types: ``-inf``
  * ``bit_and``: a value with all the bits set to 1
  * ``bit_or``: always 0
  * ``bit_xor``: always 0

* On NVIDIA:

>   * Returns T {} (i.e. 0)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Nvidia — returns T{} (i.e. 0)
```

Author: Ok, fixed

**Performance**

> On AMD, when ``group`` is of the same size as the warp size and ``T`` primitive type, DPP instructions will be used, which means the operation would be significantly faster than with other group sizes. The primitive types are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On AMD, when ``group`` is of the same size as the warp size and ``T`` primitive type, DPP instructions are used, resulting in significantly faster execution than with other group sizes. The primitive types are:
```

Author: Ok, fixed now

For arithmetic scans (``plus``, ``less`` and ``greater``):

* On Nvidia platform: there is hardware acceleration for ``int`` or ``unsigned int``

> * On AMD platform: there is hardware acceleration for ``int``, ``unsigned int``, ``unsigned long long``, ``long long``, ``half``/``float``/``double`` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Nvidia: hardware acceleration for ``int`` , ``unsigned int``

* AMD: hardware acceleration for ``int``, ``unsigned int``, ``unsigned long long``, ``long long``, ``half``/``float``/``double`` 
```

Author: Ok, fixed now

For bitwise-scans: (``bit_and``, ``bit_or``, ``bit_xor``)

* On Nvidia platform: ``unsigned int``

> * On AMD platform: ``unsigned int``, ``int``, ``unsigned long long`` or ``long long``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Nvidia: ``unsigned int``

* AMD: ``unsigned int``, ``int``, ``unsigned long long`` , ``long long``
```

Author: Ok, fixed now

* On AMD platform: there is hardware acceleration for ``int`` or ``unsigned int``, and if the user defines the macro ``HIP_ENABLE_EXTRA_WARP_SYNC_TYPES``, then ``unsigned long long``, ``long long``, ``half``/``float``/``double`` precision floating point types will also receive hardware acceleration.

For bitwise-reduces: (``bit_and``, ``bit_or``, ``bit_xor``)

* On Nvidia platform: ``unsigned int``

* On AMD platform: ``unsigned int``, and if the user defines the macro ``HIP_ENABLE_EXTRA_WARP_SYNC_TYPES``, then ``int``, ``unsigned long long`` or ``long long`` are also hardware-accelerated.

inclusive_scan
-----------------

.. code-block:: cpp

  auto inclusive_scan(const TyGroup& group, TyVal&& val, Operation&& op)
  auto inclusive_scan(const TyGroup& group, TyVal&& val)

Defined in cooperative_groups/hip_scan.h. Performs an inclusive scan using the operation ``op`` on the specified group, contributing the value ``val``. Participation of all the threads belonging to the group is expected, with each thread contributing the same per-thread value. Behaviour is undefined if one of the threads of the group does not participate.

> The parameters are described here: :ref:`cg_operations`

Author: This PR refers to code that is not yet in develop.
